uh yeah so on this we profoundly
disagree in
in a hypothetical scenario let's say you
had a lot of money and
money wasn't an issue and you were able
to spend some time you know going
through the therapists
website find you know pick one out find
somebody with credentials you respect
maybe have some consultations find
somebody you click with
do you would you see value in that like
what is the value of a therapist to you
if you could bypass all of those issues
you've mentioned that
do seem surmountable potentially if you
just did you know
it's it's a lot like prostitution right
you're paying someone to pretend to be
your friend you're paying someone to
pretend to care
and they don't care
the legitimacy you ascribe to the role
of the therapist
is probably reciprocal with what you see
is the
legitimate role of a friend if your idea
of a friend is just someone who will go
out and get drunk with you
i'm not saying this to insult you but
like you know i used to live in scotland
you know i've lived in cultures where
really the idea of a friend is someone
who watches
sports with you someone who drinks
alcohol with you like this is very
specific it's
very gender specific also with women
it's different from men but you know
if that's your idea of a friend and then
there's this huge gap in your life
to talk about anything serious and get
meaningful advice
and maybe to have someone tell you that
you got to quit drinking like maybe it
is something as
simple as that but still as difficult to
do as that um
those people will probably be very
willing to ascribe
legitimacy to the role of other
therapists
yeah i mean you've heard my reckless
optimism about social media in many ways
it's it's very easy to talk about
you used this phrase last time learning
the lessons of history learning from
your own mistakes
what video technology gives you is the
opportunity to really
see your mistakes really see
what you said and i think most people
find that very difficult to do
i think most people you know they
some people would find it difficult to
admit themselves how angry they got
about something or you know like
little things that but if you can if you
record that conversation then you watch
it afterwards you say look you see at
this point i was talking about this
issue but in your reply you were talking
about something totally irrelevant and
even if it's little things like that
yeah i really do i really do believe
that's much more useful
than our current uh paradigm of uh of
formal you know therapy but you
mentioned
that if i i'm paraphrasing but my
understanding was that you found
talking about sort of personal things in
your life to have a
more of a positive impact on you than if
you were to say
go to a therapist and talk about your
issues there and you gave a couple
anecdotal examples of experiences you
had with therapists that didn't go well
where there was
different situations stuff so i kind of
wanted you to elaborate on that because
it's
it you brought it up really quickly but
i feel like it's kind of a big topic
great topic
you know uh recently i filmed some
videos with my girlfriend that we didn't
upload we filmed it just to watch it
back ourselves and
you know just watching back a
conversation like that afterwards it's
like
you know she means well but i can say
things like you see
here during this part of the
conversation you're blaming me
and when i point it out to you you say
oh yeah no i know i don't mean to blame
you
but then five minutes later you're still
blaming me you know you can
just being able to watch back what it is
you're saying at the government just be
able to do that
uh you know a therapist can never do
that for you and even if you have a
therapist sitting there
and so like let's say it's a husband a
wife and a therapist and the husband
complains hey stop it you're blaming me
and even if the therapist agrees like
yeah you were blaming him you know the
wife
oh yeah sorry i didn't mean to and then
later on she starts blaming the husband
she won't believe it the therapist would
look that's twice you've gone back to
blaming him even though you said it's
not his fault like it's really simple
things like that
wouldn't the presumed advantage be of
there being like a cup we're gonna stick
with couples therapy
isn't it kind of like hard to get an
objective viewpoint if
if a couple is having issues how are the
two of them expected to
if they're not already resolving it
wouldn't kind of the purpose of a
therapist be to provide an objective
third party perspective
and although i understand you haven't a
story where this person was not doing
great or the
the person you were getting therapy with
wasn't being totally honest about it
which
through uh created problems but saying
that those
specific issues weren't there wouldn't
it generally be
potentially do you not do not see any
value in having like a third party come
in with a
sort of not any sort of bias towards
either of you theoretically and
the great news is you can combine the
two i mean if you've got the money
we could have a therapist come in and
sit down in front of the video camera i
could do a youtube video with their
you know it doesn't it doesn't have to
be mutually exclusive you can record
video and watch the video afterwards
but i think for many many people it's
it's just very difficult to accept
no you really said that no that's that
is really what you meant like it's very
easy to make an excuse oh well
yeah but i didn't mean that what i meant
to say was this yeah but this is what
you said and this is what you meant and
this is how you feel
look at the video you can see that's how
you feel that's very powerful and very
meaningful
can you do that you know with two people
talking to each other plus a therapist
absolutely and there are now websites
doing it basically via skype
via video conference where you have a
therapist as a third party present
but you're also sitting there on on
camera so the these methods can be
combined
however the the word you used again and
again was objective
i think right the two of your subjective
points of view
but what we're after here is really a
kind of inter-subjective
perspective right and the therapist is
gonna have his or her own
um subjective perspective that i may not
be interested in i may not respect uh
one of the therapists i talked to
with my with my ex-wife who was talking
to lawyers today about my divorce it's
still ongoing
you know the therapist was really
impressed with me intellectually he was
like oh wow
so you know how did you decide to study
cambodia i know what
what kind of philosophy did you study in
university and like they're good
questions
like i don't mind but it's completely
irrelevant to the problems in the
marriage right
now of course you could have the
opposite i haven't had this kind of
therapist
there are plenty of therapists who are
like traditional christians
and you know they look at that in a
totally different way you know
especially in family counseling family
values
and they're like well they they come
from the church and they grew up
playing the guitar in the church
basement and then they got their
university degree in counseling or
whatever you know
and you know they're going to sit there
and be like what why why did you why did
you go to cambodia
what doesn't matter you know i mean you
know and and
again that's a subjective perspective
i'm not interested at all i
uh so this is partly in the interest of
honesty and partly because it is
relevant to this conversation
i tried to pay for one of those online
counseling services so in theory that's
that's a therapist
um and when you sign up
you fill out a form for what kind of
person you're looking for
and a lot of things are about whether
you're gay or straight whether you want
a therapist who's gay or straight like
fair enough i don't care uh so you kind
of go through this form and then they
tell you who they've
recommended for you who's who's
available to your therapist
and then you either accept or walk away
and i remember the person they
recommended just had a degree in um
uh social work they were a social worker
they didn't have another thing
you know so this also but it brings this
other person what
you know i've many videos talking about
this it's very easy for people to say to
you get professional help
what professional help is there
there may be none or it may be of such a
low quality or someone with an education
that's just irrelevant to your problems
you know so you know if there is no
professional help then we get
the much richer question of what can you
do for yourself and i would absolutely
say
recording a conversation like again you
don't have to upload it to youtube you
don't have to upload anywhere
you can record a conversation on a
computer and just sit and watch it
afterwards yourselves
and really sit there and analyze what's
going on and what your problems are
and i think that can be much much more
productive than uh than seeing a
therapist
well interesting because a lot of
therapists will recommend journaling and
it's almost like a very
modern technical technological version
of journaling in a way
right but okay if you were honest enough
to really note this stuff down in your
journal you wouldn't need the therapy to
begin
like it's i mean it's so hard to admit
to yourself
okay let's let's talk about trisha
paytas for one second as an example
because
it's on video i mean every minute of his
lives on video i saw trisha paytas
get furious at ethan
h3h3 when he said correctly
that she was not ready to get pregnant
and have a baby because she ate an
unhealthy diet she was incapable of
having a disciplined
diet during the pregnancy now it is an
offensive thing to say
in trisha paytas case it's also
completely true
and you could see just how hurt she was
by that just how scorned and furious and
she's someone she has a long
track record of just completely freaking
out when people mention her food or diet
or
obesity she is a very she's a hair
trigger temper for that
okay do you think trisha paytas
could have if that were not on videotape
if there were no videotape evidence
do you think she really could go home
and write a journal and be like you know
today
somebody said something to me that was
completely factually correct
completely well-intentioned saying that
if i want to have a baby
i got to get my head together and and
eat a disciplined healthy diet
and i'm not and i freaked out and i
completely lost my tampon real quick
of course she can't of course she can't
write that in her journal she also can't
say that to her therapist
so the level of detachment and
self-knowledge and introspection you
have to have
i think exactly what you want to address
is captured by the video camera and is
never captured
um never captured in a written journal
and it's very unlikely to be presented
honestly to uh to a therapist or a
psychiatrist
okay so initially when i heard you talk
about this my
uh my understanding was almost like you
would dismiss therapy altogether
um so let me now it sounds like that's
not the case so let me ask you this
in a hypothetical scenario where let's
say you for whatever reason whatever
reason you were initially
you went to that app let's say instead
of going to the app let's say you had
a lot of money and money wasn't an issue
and you were able to spend some time
you know going through the therapists
website find you know
pick one out find somebody with
credentials you respect maybe have some
consultations find somebody you click
with
do you would you see value in that like
what is the value of a therapist to you
if you could bypass
all of those issues you've mentioned
that do seem surmountable potentially if
you just did
you know it's it's a lot like
prostitution
right you're paying someone to pretend
to be your friend
you're paying someone to pretend to care
and they don't care keeping it all the
way real i mean
but fair enough if that's your
perspective but i don't know i'm going
to push back in that a little bit
because my understanding is that that's
the idea is your friend
shouldn't be doing that for you because
you know let's say i have a problem
let's say
uh someone died and i need somebody to
talk to about it my friend's not
equipped so i could do that
maybe they could help me but maybe
they'll say something that makes it even
worse
whereas a therapist they've been trained
yes they're kind of filling in this
spot of a person you need but i feel
like to compare them to a friend would
suggest that a friend should be playing
that role of a therapist normally which
i disagree with
okay so so you know me pretty well now
you know if
if you were upset and you had a death in
your family you had some kind of
unexpected
thing i think you could talk to me
and and my friends do and i i think i'm
exactly the kind of friend people go to
for help that way and it's basically
been the case
all my life and people expect me to be
reliable and sober and intelligent and
detached and to really
tell them something honest and useful i
mean like a therapist
in theory your therapist is supposed to
be willing to tell you things you don't
want to hear in reality
they don't in reality they're flattering
because they want you to come back and
keep paying this money
this experience means there are
different kinds of bias that creep in
with
with uh with therapists but i mean that
that kind of role you're talking about
um another comparison would be to a
grandparent you know can you go to your
grandparent and ask this
an idealized perfect right like maybe
not the actual grandfather grandmother
you have
it would be nice to imagine you could go
to a grandparent and talk about
some of these problems and really get
advice that's meaningful for you
um i i think it's fair to say i've
played the role of a grandparent
for some of my friends maybe for all of
them
you know and i'm not i'm not
uncomfortable with that so i think
you're correct in pointing out there's a
kind of reciprocal relationship between
these things
like the legitimacy you ascribe to the
role of the therapist
is probably reciprocal with what you see
as the
legitimate role of a friend if your idea
of a friend is just someone who will go
out and get drunk with you
i'm not saying this to insult you but
like you know i used to live in scotland
you know i've lived in cultures where
really the idea of a friend is someone
who watches
sports with you someone who drinks
alcohol with you like this is very
specific
it's very gender specific also with
women it's different for men but you
know
if that's your idea of a friend and then
there's this huge gap in your life to
talk about anything serious and get
meaningful advice
and maybe to have someone tell you that
you gotta quit drinking like maybe it is
something
as simple as that but still as difficult
to do as that
those people will probably be very
willing to ascribe
uh legitimacy to the role of a therapist
but for me i'm
i'm it's the other way around i do see
that kind of responsibility
it's something you have to look to your
friends for if you have a great family
maybe your relatives i don't i have a
terrible dysfunctional family
so no i looked to that i looked at my
friends for that and my friends looked
to me for that and i think that's very
positive
so what about like okay this is
interesting because i have a you know
i'm open to your perspective on this but
i see it very differently whereas
like for me both sides of this so the
idea of me presenting my issues to a
friend the reason why i wouldn't do that
is maybe i just i mean maybe there's
some magical friend that i've never
experienced but to me
i would see that as a burden i would see
that as something they're not equipped
to deal with
i would also potentially i would
i've tried that before in my past and
it's like because they're not a trained
therapist and don't know what to say
they actually say stuff to me that makes
me feel more isolated it's like oh you
don't understand my problem
even my friend doesn't get me oh this is
completely backfired
and then on the flip side people these
scenarios where people have come to me
for this
type of advice maybe i've attempted more
recent
because of a bunch of failed attempts
where i realized like i don't know what
i'm doing i don't want the
responsibility of giving you advice and
finding out that it actually damaged you
and stuff
i basically created this sort of like
zero tolerance policy on
being sort of in this therapist role for
a person and
uh what you were saying was sort of this
idea that
you can't have deep conversations or but
that's what i'm talking about like deep
conversations absolutely talking about
important things in your life with your
friends absolutely
but getting to that point of these are
the problems in my childhood that i want
to kind of figure out how is this
applying
like therapist stuff i feel like you're
really walking onto a minefield to
engage with that in a non-professional
context with
some someone who you have a relationship
with or even a stranger
do you not see those things uh yeah so
on this we profoundly disagree
um you know who who else would know that
i mean i mean this is part of the
definition
of a friend and then we have another
kind of reciprocal question which is
what
what do you think the professional
expertise is that these people have
gained
that make them capable of doing
something helpful
or avoiding doing harm by listening to
you talk about your
your childhood trauma can talking to a
therapist
help you my perspective is
that there are a lot of people who have
no friends
there are a lot of people like me also
who you know don't have a grandparent
they can turn to
for this stuff so certainly it is quite
possible a therapist will be better than
nothing
that a therapist will be better than
than nobody
um it's also possible that talking to a
prostitute
is going to be better than nothing and
nobody
and i you know i say that with a human
heart there are people who lead
really terrible isolated lives and
they have nobody to talk to and nobody
who cares and often enough
you know they end up having some kind of
meaningful relationship with a
prostitute who knows them well and and
cares and talks to them about
these problems of the way i'm not i'm
not stereotyping i'm not dismissing
anything
um but no i don't start
from the scientistic
assumption you know that that there
is a true treatment that there is a
viable valid treatment and that you
would be depriving yourself of it
by talking to your friends